In this lecture, we'll be taking a look at some more of the access modifiers to see how we can expose
some of our tank movement variables for easier access to quickly test and edit them in the inspector.
We'll also take the opportunity here to improve the camera and the spring home component.
So this will be kind of a side task to spend a little bit more time in the editor to get the game feeling
a bit better.
So if we start by heading into our tank class, we want to make ours move speed and rotate speed.
Editable in the inspector and maybe the blueprint classes just in case.
We do need to use them later on for testing and iteration.
So we've already covered all of the potential access modifiers that we might want or be able to use
here.
So just take a moment to consider which you think might be best used between visibility and the edit
modifiers and the sub options of those.
So I actually pulled the video and just consider which of these we might implement and why.
Okay, so there's no exact right answer here, but I just wanted to run through my thought process.
So the first thing that we do know is that we definitely need these to be added modifiers because just
viewing these and the editor isn't going to allow us to make any of those quick adjustments.
The next consideration is whether we want this to be edited anywhere in the default class or only in
the blueprint classes or in the inspector.
My preference here is to set this to anywhere as this will allow us to very easily change the variable
in the blueprint.
So that will be our kind of default and global variable for any future tanks that we create in the game.
But then we also get the freedom to update and make quick alterations to this in the level using the
instances of the blueprint class too.
So we can then very easily even be mid game jump height of the game plan just pulls it, make some changes,
mid game, go back in and test those changes immediately.
So that was just, like I said, just more of a thought experiment to see the process of why you may
want to choose one over another.
As I said, there's no right answer.
And it may come too.
After implementing it, we may see that we've given this way too much access.
If you're working in a team, other people not quite so aware of what's going on in the setup, maybe
making mistakes with the implementation.
So you may want to come back and redact that a little bit and make it maybe only editable in the defaults
or in the inspector.
But no, I think anyone is gonna fit this project quite nicely.
Next, we want to provide our readers rights options.
So this is going to be a little bit less important.
So I'm just going to give this the full read write access in case we ever do want to add modifiers in
blueprint testing.
Like I said, for adding things like speed boosts or D buffs, I'm not going to drop these into a new
category named movement so that we can easily find these values.
And it's pretty clear what they're responsible for.
And finally, because we're using the blueprint specify, also going to want to include our to specify
to allow the private access of this variable in the private section.
So this is going to provide us a really flexible system to test and update our variables, to really
refine the feel of the movement.
And then if we consider our kind of base premise for making this small game, jam themed project, this
is going to be incredibly powerful as it will save us a lot of time and allow us to really refine the
feel of our game in such a small sort of deadline period.
So let's go back over to the editor and compile our code.
With that done inside of the BP tank class, we can start making some of these changes to the global
properties before updating these.
I wanted to make the camera a little bit more pleasant to view the game through.
So let's grab these spring.
I'm here and get that one in place.
So if we just add a 50 degree rotation to the pitch, this is going to give us a slightly more top down
view rather than the over the shoulder view.
We can also adjust the target arm length to something like 600, which should not be good.
And again, you can easily update this depending on how far or close to the player you want the camera
to stay.
Then the next thing that I'd usually do in a game like this where we know that the wheel collisions
with the camera shouldn't be an issue, would be to disable the collision test here.
So this can be a really nice thing to have in something like a third person game where the camera will
try to move a little bit to avoid going through walls.
However, in a game like this, this is going to potentially do some strange kind of twitching movements
if something like another actor, such as the turret classes will have all the projectiles passed through
the line of the collision trace.
So I'm actually going to leave this text for now just so we can experience some of those scenarios.
And this will, again, just teach us how to look at these strange occurrences.
And remind us to come back and fix this a little bit later.
Finally, then, if we scroll down to the camera like options and enable both the camera and the rotation
like this just adds a small kind of delay.
Before the camera spring, I will attempt to catch up with the player movement.
This just makes the game look and feel a little bit more dynamic.
Again, a really handy quick tip to really make something like a game jam entry or an early prototype
feel much more polished with just a really simple feature added.
So if we press play now, this is going to be a little bit hard to see, but because we're moving quite
so slowly.
So let's just exit back out of this and go and change the movement and rotation speed.
So for the movement, I've got something much higher.
Somewhere around five hundred.
And I think rotation probably wasn't quite so bad, so maybe we'll just double this to 200.
So it's me that's feeling much better already.
We can spend some time here and play a round of these results.
And of course, find the variables that you feel are the best for the type of game you're making with
these feeling.
Okay.
And if we just go back to the spring home and have a look at how we can implement this.
So to demonstrate the difference, I think this is going to be much more noticeable if we talk of this
on and off.
So you can see that this immediately feels a lot less rigid and snappy with the camera like on.
We can also change the variables here to affect the delay.
So a higher value will make it like, but it was catch up much faster, whilst a lower value will take
longer for the spring to catch up.
In this case, I think I actually quite like the value to be quite slow.
So I'm going to take both these nine to five.
And if we quickly head over to our test map and look at one of the real values of adding the edit anywhere
specify in our C++ code.
So if we press play, we can actually eject from the porn possession by pressing F eight.
And we can then kind of treat the editor as we would outside of playmate's so we can go in and select
the porn class if we search for the movement and make some in-game updates to the variables to quickly
check the different setups so we can take the value head to an extreme.
And if we press F eight again togo back in and possess the porn, we can confirm that this is indeed
going to be way too fast.
Alternatively, we can make something some reasonable kind of smaller increments to the values and see
if we can refine the movements on rotation that way.
And in fact, from doing this, I think I found a pretty good, sweet spot for the rotation, which
for me is somewhere around 250.
So I'm going to go back in to the blueprint class because remember, anything that you do in the ED,
either during play mode or to the instance, isn't going to be saved globally.
So we're going to go back into the blueprint class.
I'm going to change the rotation speed to 250 here.
So this means that now whenever we spawn something in dynamically and level, which is the correct approach,
we'll be looking at later, forgetting the tank being possessed by the player.
We're going to allow Unroll to use the spawning system to manage this.
That means that this value will be carried over into the newly spawned classes.
So these are just some ways that we can make nice use of combining C++ and blueprints or some really
quick and effective iteration, especially when it comes to things like the feel of the game and refining
controls and input for the player.